# DataWarehouse_S3_Redshift
Udacity Data Engineer - Datawareouse S3 Redshift

## Introduction
This is a project included on the Udacity Data Engineer nanodegree.

A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

As their data engineer, I am tasked with building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, stages them in Redshift, and transforms data into a set of dimensional tables for their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to. I'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare my results with their expected results.

## Project Description
In this project, I'll apply what you've learned on data warehouses and AWS to build an ETL pipeline for a database hosted on Redshift. The project delivery includes loading data from S3 to staging tables on Redshift and execute SQL statements that create the analytics tables from these staging tables.

## Project Datasets
You'll be working with two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:
- Song data: [s3://udacity-dend/song_data](http://example.com)
- Log data: [s3://udacity-dend/log_data](http://example.com)
Log data json path: s3://udacity-dend/log_json_path.json

### Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

### Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.
```
song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
```
And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.
```
{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}
```
